# 1.1 Is Unique

Implement an algorithm to determine if a string has all unique characters. What
if you cannot use additional data structures?

---

If we are allowed to use additional space and data structures, we can prepare
an hashmap to map the character to its counts. Even better, we can save further
space by realizing that the characters are represented as a ASCII value; hence,
by finding its relative distance to start of English lowercase letter 'a', we
can convert each character to specific index starting from 0. This way, we can
find the uniqueness in O(n) time complexity. The space complexity in this case
would be O(1) as there are constant number of unique letters in the English
alphabet.

If no additional data structures are allowed, then we can approach this in
three different ways:

(1) Sort the string. If we can sort the strings in-place, then we can detect
the duplicates as we iterate on them as they should be neighbours. Time
complexity would be O(n * log(n)).

(2) Brute force comparison. For each character, we compare against every other
character. Using nested loop, this would be O(n^2) in time complexity.

(3) Use bit-manipulation. Same idea as the using array to map the character to
their unique locations; however, here, we use the individual bits. The integer
representation of each character can be mapped to their specific place in bits.
Time complexity would be O(n).

---

Java:

```java

class Solution {
    
    // bit-approach
    public boolean isUnique(String s) {
        long prev = 0;

        for (char c : s.toCharArray()) {
            long curr = 1 << (c - 'a');
            // no two characters are mapped to same bit
            if (prev & curr > 0) return false;
            prev |= curr;
        }

        return true;
    }
}

```

Python:

```python

class Solution:
    
    // hash-map approach
    def isUnique(self, s):
        counter = collections.Counter(s)
        return not any(c > 1 for _, c in counter.items())

```
