# 502. IPO

Suppose LeetCode will start its IPO soon. In order to sell a good price of its
shares to Venture Capital, LeetCode would like to work on some projects to
increase its capital before the IPO. Since it has limited resources, it can
only finish at most k distinct projects before the IPO. Help LeetCode design
the best way to maximize its total capital after finishing at most k distinct
projects.

You are given several projects. For each project i, it has a pure profit Pi and
a minimum capital of Ci is needed to start the corresponding project.
Initially, you have W capital. When you finish a project, you will obtain its
pure profit and the profit will be added to your total capital.

To sum up, pick a list of at most k distinct projects from given projects to
maximize your final capital, and output your final maximized capital.

---

Here, we use max-heap to impose and to maintain the continued ordered list of
profits. At each step, we look at top of our max-heap to check for its project
cost (capital). If it is greater than our current capital W, then we cannot yet
complete them, so we remove it temporarliy. Once we found the project that can
generate revenue and is one that gurantees the maximum profit (since max-heap
imposed an order), we can update our current captial and restore heap for next
process.

Time complexity would be O(n * log(n)) as we require n number of heap
operations to complete and O(n) in space to maintain the heap.

---

Python:

```python

class Solution502:

    def findMaximizedCaptial(self, k, W, Profits, Capitals):
        
        # create max-heap based on profits it can generate
        # ignore all profits that cannot generate value
        pq = [(-Profits[i], i) for i in range(len(Profits)) if Profits[i] > 0]
        heapify(pq)

        while pq and k > 0:
            temp = list()

            # remove from the pq until the intial investment for project is
            # higher than what we have currently
            while pq and W < Capitals[pq[0][1]]:
                temp.append(heappop(pq))

            # no more projects to process
            if not pq:
                return W

            # update our current capital and restore max-heap
            W += Profits[heappop(pq)[1]]
            while temp:
                heappush(pq)
            k -= 1

        return W
```
